# fc4e-cat-doc
The documentation of the FC4E CAT Tookit

## Instructions to add content

Please add a new file or folder under folder docs. 

### Add a single markdown file (ex. intro.md) 

The markdown file consists of two parts 

* the metadata of the file 
* the actual content

#### Metadata of the file 

In order to support more functionalities the [plugin-content-docs](https://docusaurus.io/docs/api/plugins/@docusaurus/plugin-content-docs) is enabled. 

With this plugin markdown documents can use a list of Markdown front matter metadata fields, enclosed by a line --- on either side.
In our case we use at least the following ones 

 - id: A unique document ID used also in the URL path	
 - title: The text title of your document. Used for the page metadata and as a fallback value in multiple places (sidebar, next/previous buttons...). Automatically added at the top of your doc if it does not contain any Markdown title.
- sidebar_position: Controls the position of a doc inside the generated sidebar
```
---
id: intro
title: Introduction
sidebar_position: 1
---
```

#### The actual content

In this part of the file focus on your content and **just write Markdown** files!

### Add a folder with files 

If we want to create multiple files under a specific topic we create a folder and multiple files under it. 
ex 

```
- docs/
- - vocabularies/
- - vocabularies/_category_.json
- - vocabularies/intro.md 
- - vocabularies/external.md 
- - vocabularies/internal.md 

```
For each file you may use the steps described in the previous chapter. 

In the directory listing you can see ```_category_.json``` file

This file specifies the category item metadata. As defined in [the docusaurus documentation](https://docusaurus.io/docs/sidebar/autogenerated#category-item-metadata)
Add a ```_category_.json``` or ```_category_.yml``` file in the respective folder. You can specify any category metadata and also the position metadata. label, className, position.


```
{
    "label": "Vocabularies",
    "position": 2,
    "link": {
      "type": "generated-index"
    }
}
```

## Instructions to work locally

Make sure you have latest NodeJS version installed (tested with: 18.16.0 LTS)

1. Clone this repo (or your fork) and navigate to the project root folder
```
git clone https://github.com/FC4E-CAT/fc4e-cat-doc
cd fc4e-cat-doc
```

2. Install depedencies
```
npm install
```

3. Run development server locally
```
npm start
```

4. Build
```
npm run build
```

5. Run optimized build locally
```
npm run serve
```
